# SCT Standard Experiment Online
This is a repository for the manuscript "Status Contagion: A Crowdsourced Experiment on the Spread of Status Value between People." The manuscript is conditionally accepted at an academic journal - publication information (including a link) will be posted upon acceptance from the journal. In the manuscript, I used an abbreviated form of the standard experimental setting used in research on status charactersitcs and expectation states theories. The repository consists of a Qualtrics program I used so that others may collect data using the same protocols I have.

[Here is the Qualtrics File](https://github.com/joverto1/SCT-Standard-Experiment-Online/files/6896426/Experimental_Protocol_-_Posted_7-28-21.zip). The Qualtrics website has [helpful directions](https://www.qualtrics.com/support/survey-platform/survey-module/survey-tools/import-and-export-surveys) on how you can import .qsf files into your Qualtrics editor. 

Note that if you adapt the present protocol, you will want to update the tool at the beginning that helps mTurk workers find their ID. In addition, norms on Amazon Mechanical Turk around issues of pay have changed since this study was first conducted, so you may find that you need to raise the payrates. Such an update to current conventional payrates should not threaten the comparability of results, so long as bonuses for high performance remain roughly proportional to baseline pay.

In the manuscript, all participants had an equal chance of being randomly assigned to one of 12 experimental conditions. Conditions 1 - 3 were used to test whether the online standard experiment produces results comparable to those found in prior in-person laboratories. Conditions 4 - 12 were used to test the spread of status value arguments.

Notably, [Manago, Mize, and Doan (2021)](https://github.com/biancamanago/SCTOnlineTasks) independently developed another protocol for the status characteristics standard experiment that interested readers may want to compare with the present protocol.
